so for Disney's festival of fantasy
parade we really wanted to create a big
wow you know that moment when everybody
just looks and says this is something
we've never seen before and I've always
been intrigued by the idea of doing the
Maleficent dragon because Sleeping
Beauty is my absolute favorite classic
Disney film we've been sort of relooking
at parade floats what they mean for
quite a few years now
Disney has been the leader in the world
in reinventing what that can be in the
case of Maleficent we don't think of her
as a parade float we think of her as a
creature we really wanted to be a
fire-breathing dragon
but how do we interpret it so it tells
part of the film
the spinning wheel to me is always like
sort of a major piece between Sleeping
Beauty and Maleficent part of the
relationship so what I did is I left the
center of the body open and put the
spinning wheel on that and the spinning
wheel is the heart of the dragon because
we had the spinning wheel and I thought
years movement what if we did it as
steampunk I really like the steampunk
quality at long distance it'll look like
the silhouette of Maleficent you expect
the fun detail you realize it's made of
rose bushes and thorns and shards of
metal it's 52 feet in length
and it is 25 feet high when the head is
up full and that's when you'll see it
shooting the flame as its fighting
Prince Phillip that for us was the
really fun thing to maintain the Disney
quality of animated character but at the
same time rendered and completely
different material yeah this is sort of
what you dream about it's the kind of
things that you think about is even as a
kid he could build a dragon and I could
come down the street and refire that
would be like every little boy's dream
and that's really what this is for me
the greatest joy is the end result where
I get to see it in front of the public
it always is so I'm looking forward to
that reaction I know it's going to be a
while